Random Speech

//Tennyson's Charge of the Light Brigade

Half a league, half a league, 
Half a leage onward,
All in the valley of Death
Rode the six hundred.

"Forward, the Light Brigade!
Charge for the guns!" he said:
Into the valley of Death
Rode the six hundred.

"Forward, the Light Brigade!"
Was there a man dismay'd?
Not tho' the soldier knew
Someone had blunder'd:

Theirs not to make reply, 
Theirs not to reason why, 
Theirs but to do and die:
Into the valley of Death
Rode the six hundred.

Cannon to the right of them, 
Cannon to the left of them, 
Cannon in front of them
Volley'd and thunder'd:

Storm'd at with shot and shell
Boldly they rode and well, 

Into the jaws of Death, 
Into the mouth of Hell
Rode the six hundred.

Flash'd all their sabers bare, 
Flash'd as they turn'd in air
Sab'ring the gunners there, 
Charging an army while

All the world wonder'd:
Plunged in the battery smoke

Right thro' the line they broke;
Cossack and Russian
Reel'd from the saber stroke

Shatter'd and sunder'd.
Then they rode back, but not 
Not the six hundred.

Cannon to the right of them, 
Cannon to the left of them, 
Cannon behind them
Volley'd and thunder'd:

Storm'd at with shot and shell, 
While horse and hero fell,
They that had fought so well

Came through the jaws of death
Back from the mouth of hell, 
All that was left of them -- 
Left of six hundred.

When can their glory fade? 
Oh, the wild charge they made!
All the world wonder'd. 

Honor the charge they made!
Honor the Light Brigade --
Noble six hundred!

//Longfellow's The Arrow and the Song

I shot an arrow into the air, 
It fell to earth, I knew not where;
For, so swiftly it flew, the sight
Could not follow in its flight.

I breathed a song into the air,
It fell to earth, I knew not where;
For who has sight so keen and strong, 
That it can follow the flight of song?

Long, long afterward, in an oak
I found the arrow, still unbroke;
And the song, from beginning to end, 
I found again in the heart of a friend.

//Ben Franklin's Mr. Meant-To

Mr. Meant-To has a comrade,
And his name is Didn't-Do;
Have you ever chanced to meet them?
Did they ever call on you?

These two fellows live together
In the house of Never-Win, 
And I'm told that it is haunted
By the ghost of Might-Have-Been.

//Longfellow's The Village Blacksmith (partial -- too long to include the whole thing)

Under a spreading chestnut tree
The village smithy stands;

The smith, a mighty man is he, 
With large and sinewy hands;

And the muscles of his brawny arms
Are strong as iron bands.

His hair is crisp, and black, and long, 
His face is like the tan;

His brow is wet with honest sweat,
He earns whate'er he can,

And looks the whole world in the face,
For he owes not any man.

Week in, week out, from morn till night,
You can hear his bellows blow;

You can hear him swing his heavy sledge,
With measured beat and slow,

Like a sexton ringing the village bell,
When the evening sun is low.

And children comming home from school
Look in at the open door;

They love to see the flaming forge,
And hear the bellows roar,

And catch the burning sparks the fly
Like chaff from a threshing floor.

//Emerson's Great Men

Not gold, but only man can make
A people great and strong;

Men who, for truth and honor's sake,
Stand fast and suffer long.

Brave men who work while others sleep,
Who dare while others fly --

They build a nation's pillars deep
And lift them to the sky.

//Ernest Chackleton's Men Wanted for Hazardous Journey (from a newspaper ad in 1900)

Men watned for hazardous journey.  

Small wages, bitter cold, long months of complete darkness,

constant danger, safe return doubtful.

Honor and recognition in case of success.

//Anonymous (Pre 1658) There was a lady  loved a swine

There was a lady loved a swine.
Honey, quoth she,
Pig-hog, wilt thou be mine?
Hoogh, quoth he.

I'll build thee a silver sty, 
Honey, quoth she,
And in it thou shalt lie.
Hoogh, quoth he.

Pinned with a silver pin, 
Honey, quote she,
That thou may go out and in.
Hoogh, quoth he.

Wilt hou have me now,
honey? quoth she.
Speak or my heartwill break.
Hoogh, quoth he.

//Francis Petrarch, 1300's Great is my Envy of You

Great is my envy of you, earth, in your greed
Folding her in invisible embrace,

Denying me the look of the sweet face
Where I found peace from all my strife at need!

Great is my envy of heaven which can lead
And lock within itself in avarice

That spirit from its lovely biding-place
And leave so many others here to bleed!

//Selected from Machiavelli's The Prince

Everybody knows how laudable it is in a prince to keep his faith and to be an honest man, not a trickster.

Nevertheless, the experience of our times shows that the princes who have done great things are the ones who have taken little account of their promises and who have known how to addle the brains of men with craft.

In the end they have conquered those who have put their reliance on good faith.

//Selected from Ayn Rand's The Voice of Reason

If the good, the virtuous, the morally ideal is suffering and self-sacrifice -- then, by that standard, capitalism had to be damned as evil. 

Capitalism does not tell men to suffer, but to pursue enjoyment and achievement, here, on Earth -- capitalism does not tell men to serve and sacrifice, but to produce and profit... and above all, capitalism does not permist anyone to expect or demand, to give or to take the unearned.

//Selected from Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged

You are not free to escape from your nature, from the fact that reason is your means of survival -- so that you, who are a human being, the question "to be or not to be' is the question 'to think or not to think."

//Selected from Dante Alighieri's The Divine Comedy: Inferno, Canto I.

Midway in our life's journey, I went astray 
from the straight road and woke to find myself
alone in a dark wood.  How shall I say

what a wood that was!  I never saw so drear,
so rank, so arduous a wilderness!
Its very memory gives a shape to fear.

Death could scarce be more bitter than that place!
But since it came to good, I will recount 
all that I found revealed there by God's grace...